The skull and crossbones flag at the top of a pirate ship is called a Jolly Roger.
Famous female pirates include Mary Read, Anne Bonny, Grace O'Malley, and Ching Shih.
Pirates wore eye patches so that they would have better vision in the evenings.
Pirates had a tough job, many people were killed or injured in battle, their careers usually lasted a couple of years.
Piracy began more than 2000 years ago in ancient Greece, when sea robbers started flocking around the trading routes.
The golden age of piracy was between 1620 and 1720.
In naval combat, being upwind of your enemy is referred to as having "the weather gauge" and is a huge advantage.
Pirates used curved swords called cutlasses instead of the more popular rapier in order to fight in confined spaces.
Julius Caesar was famously abducted by pirates and demanded that they ransom him for more than they were asking for.
Blackbeard used to put lit fuses in his hat and beard before boarding enemy ships to terrify their crews.
Flintlock pistols took a long time to reload, so many pirates carried more than one.
Escaped slaves made up a large percentage of pirates.
France, Spain, the Dutch, and the British used to hire pirates known as privateers to raid other countries' shipping.
Navy Man O' Wars that sometimes hunted pirates could have as many as 800 crew members on board.
Pirates usually elected their captain democratically.
The only pirate who is believed to have actually buried their treasure is William Kidd.
Rather than gold and jewels, most pirate loot was actually sugar, lumber, or cotton.
Pirates would usually not kill anyone if an enemy ship surrendered.
Pirates loved to steal food, water, alcohol, weapons, or clothing that they could immediately use.
Once, the pirate captain Thomas Tew and his crew of 40 made a ship with over 300 soldiers on board surrender.
If you hold down the fire button too long, your shots will slow down and you'll need to wait before you can shoot at full force again.
Jewels are worth more points the faster you're going when you pick them up.
If you collect a parrot powerup, the screen will turn red and you will be invincible for a short time.
If you collect an albatross powerup, pressing "down" or "S" will launch a boarding pirate off of your ship.
Blackbeard's real name was Edward Teach.
Many pirates thought that gold piercings improved their eyesight.
Most pirates didn't actually use a Jolly Roger as their flag. Instead, they just used black flags.
Royal Navy sailors were called "limeys" because they ate limes to keep from getting scurvy.
If you hold the fire button down too long, your guns won't fire as fast. Wait to let them cool off.
Some ports were known to be pirate-friendly. Port Royal, Tortuga, Nassau, Ile-Sainte-Marie, Clew Bay, and Barataria Bay are the most famous.
Privateers hired by France were known as Corsairs.
"Buccaneer" is a generic term for any pirate or privateer that raids Spanish ships or settlements.
Another name for pirates is "freebooters".
The term "swashbuckler" comes from a specific type of swordfighting that involves a sword (swash) and a small shield (buckler).
When pirates wanted to raid towns, they'd moor their ship somewhere else and sneak around on land.
Very few people ever actually walked the plank, but it was occasionally used as a punishment or after a mutiny.
The most common meal for sailors was hard tack, a very hard bread that lasts for a really long time.
While they worked, pirates used to sing songs called chanteys.
Your ship can go faster downwind than in any other direction.
Bartholomew Roberts, known as Black Bart, plundered more than 400 ships.
Your ship will slow down if you go into the wind, but there's no other way to slow down.
After every third wave, the wind direction will randomly change.
Once you reach wave 25, every wave is a boss wave.
The voice we often think of as a "pirate accent" was invented for the 1950 Disney film Treasure Island.
Some bosses move and attack in pre-designed patterns.
Some say that if you make it to wave 42, you might see the Loch Ness Monster.
The more enemies you kill without being hit, the farther your cannons fire.
The color of the sea represents your health. Bluer is better, greyer is worse.
The Kraken was a mythical octopus-like sea monster.
Clippers were extremely fast ships that were mostly used in the late 1700s and early 1800s.
The word "junk" used to describe Chinese junk ships comes from the Chinese word for ship, "chuán".
Viking longboats were symmetrical so that vikings escaping from a raid didn't have to worry about turning their boat around.
The ghost ship boss mirrors everything you do, including shooting when you shoot.
If a boarding pirate lands on any enemy, that enemy is instantly defeated and its treasure automatically collected.
The jolly roger flag at the top of the screen tells you how many boarding pirates you have left.
Powerup birds appear randomly, so sometimes it's best to wait for one rather than kill that final enemy and go right to the next wave.
Large sailing ships almost always have weights at the bottom known as ballast to keep the ship upright.
Pirate ships often had a rat problem below deck, so ships would keep cats onboard to catch the rats.
Old, experienced sailors are called sea dogs.
On old ships, people didn't say "left" or "right" when referring to directions. Instead, they called them "larboard" and "starboard".
People didn't start saying "port" for "left" onboard boats until the mid-1800s.
Sailing ships need a fin called a keel at the bottom to keep them from always drifting downwind.
What sailors thought to be mermaids were probably just manatees.
Blackbeard's ship, the Queen Anne's Revenge, started out as a French slave transport called the Concorde until he stole it.
Anne Bonny and Mary Read were captured along with the rest of Jack Rackham's crew, but escaped death sentences because they were pregnant.
Once, Jack Rackham was surrounded by Spanish ships when he and his crew rowed over to a sloop the Spanish had captured. The next day, he sailed away in the sloop while the Spanish destroyed his old ship.
The biggest ship Bartholomew Roberts used in his pirating career was a former French Man O' War with 40 cannons and 157 crew.
Greek Triremes had three rows of oars, hence the name.
BootyHunter has 11 different bosses. Can you defeat them all?
Try running pursuing enemies into islands to kill them.
After you've taken damage, you are invincible for a short time to keep you from being instantly killed.
If you spawn inside of an island, you can sail out of it but not back into it.
Whitecaps indicate where the wind is coming from.
Feeling like doing some real life piracy? Don't. Just restart the game.
If there was no wind, pirates used to lower a sail into the ocean as a sort of bath tub in order to bathe without being eaten by sharks.
The big, heavy, Man O' War enemies will flock together into lines if there are more than one.
The light, nimble Dhow enemies will attack and then run away.
