ship is called a Jolly Roger.
Grace O'Malley, and Ching Shih.
in the evenings.
their careers usually lasted a couple of years.
robbers started flocking around the trading routes.

"the weather gauge" and is a huge advantage.
rapier in order to fight in confined spaces.
that they ransom him for more than they were asking for.
enemy ships to terrify their crews.
more than one.

privateers to raid other countries' shipping.
800 crew members on board.

treasure is William Kidd.
lumber, or cotton.

they could immediately use.
over 300 soldiers on board surrender.
and you'll need to wait before you can shoot at full force again.

invincible for a short time.
boarding pirate off of your ship that instantly kills enemies.


Instead, they just used black flags.
keep from getting scurvy.
fast. Wait to let them cool off.
Nassau, Ile-Sainte-Marie, Clew Bay, and Barataria Bay are the most famous.

raids Spanish ships or settlements.

that involves a sword (swash) and a small shield (buckler).
else and sneak around on land.
used as a punishment or after a mutiny.
that lasts for a really long time.


400 ships.
no other way to slow down.


the 1950 Disney film Treasure Island.

Ness Monster.
cannons fire.
greyer is worse.

late 1700s and early 1800s.
Chinese word for ship, "chuán".
raid didn't have to worry about turning their boat around.
whenever you shoot.
defeated and its treasure automatically collected.
boarding pirates you have left.
rather than kill that final enemy and go right to the next wave.
ballast to keep the ship upright.
cats onboard to catch the rats that often lived in the lower decks.

directions. Instead, they called them "larboard" and "starboard".
mid-1800s.
always drifting downwind.

slave transport called the Concorde until he stole it.
Jack Rackham's crew, but escaped death sentences because they were pregnant.
a former French Man O' War with 40 cannons and 157 crew.



keep you from being instantly killed.
back into it.


sort of bath tub in order to bathe without being eaten by sharks.
if there are more than one.


how big a ship is, it was referred to by the number of guns it has

side of the map. The world is round!

them onto ships they wanted to attack.
